# Novempuss

An Atomic Graphlet—Graph Logical Inference Database Engine Prototype.

Written in [Julia](https://julialang.org/).

## Introduction

**Q. Why is it called Novempuss?**

**A.** Because it is the new little brother of [Octopoes](https://github.com/minvws/nl-kat-coordination/tree/main/octopoes).

**Q. What is a "graphlet"?**

**A.** A subgraph, that contains the relevant information about the graph you are working with.

**Q. What is "Atomic"?**

**A.** It means that _graphlets_ can be processed in parallel.

**Q. Is Novempuss parallelized?**

**A.** No not yet, but in principle it can be — and it might be.

**Q. What is "Logical Inference"?**

**A.** It means that new vertices in the graph are generated by logical rules provided by the user.
Any graphlet, is always fully inferred.

**Q. Why is it a "Prototype"?**

**A.** Novempuss is a prototype for improvements to Octopoes the graph database powering [OpenKAT](https://github.com/minvws/nl-kat-coordination/).

**Q. Why is it an "Engine"?**

**A.** This project does not aim to be a full fledged database, but is rather a set of algorithms that allow a database solution to be built upon.

**Q. Is Novempuss stable?**

**A.** No, it is currently under heavy initial development.
It is the aim to become more stable eventually, but like every project it will be a work in progress.

**Q. Why is it written in Julia?**

**A.** Novempuss is a mathy project with a need for speed.
Julia, is in short, everything a math oriented C/C++ developer wished Python would have been:
* Julia is fast (High performance unlike Python),
* Easy to use (very productive unlike C/C++), 
* Interoperable (you can easily interface it with your favorite language),
* Has easy to utilize parallelism, acceleration and distribution (Uncommon),
* A great math oriented community (Matlab/R).

Hence a perfect candidate.

## Installation

**For usage:**
```
] add https://github.com/originalsouth/Novempuss.git
```

**For development:**
```
using Pkg
Pkg.develop(url = "https://github.com/originalsouth/Novempuss.git")
```

Install extra dependencies:
```
] add BenchmarkTools CairoMakie GraphMakie GraphPlot PlotGraphviz Pluto ProfileView Revise SimpleWeightedGraphs Test
```

## Basic Usage
To be done. See tests and examples for now.

## Roadmap
- [x] Implement a MethodSet dispatcher for rule based inference
- [x] Implement basic `Graphlet` structure with corresponding routines
- [x] Create `LogicalGraph` structure as database structure to store `Graphlets` with common routines
    - [x] Allow addition/deletion of nodes and rules
    - [x] Find node's `Graphlet`'s
    - [x] Find neighbors of a node (up to n-th order)
    - [x] Find shortest path between nodes (if any)
    - [x] Add `Graphlet` merge caching optimizations
    - [x] Add transaction history
- [ ] Extend with optional use of parallelism CPU/GPU
- [ ] Add serializations (for storage)
- [ ] Add documentation
- [ ] Add testing
    - [x] Implement some basic tests
    - [ ] Harden and extend testing and measure coverage
- [x] Add examples
    - [x] Some basic examples in Pluto
    - [x] Have fun with the [Collatz conjecture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Collatz_conjecture)
    - [x] Have fun with [L-Systems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/L-system)
    - [x] Have fun in the kitchen
- [ ] Create a benchmark suite to test and enhance performance

Meanwhile there will also be the usual bug zapping, code and performance optimizing, and discussions.

## Contribute
Please! Feel free to discuss make an issue or create a pull request.

## Acknowledgements
Thanks to @underdarknl for good discussions and inspirations, @brennodewinter for the endorsements and the inspiring [OpenKAT](https://github.com/minvws/nl-kat-coordination/) team.
Thanks to the colleagues at CIMSOLUTIONS.
